So have you ever missed a moment?
You know, you're having your friends over the games on and you go to the refrigerator to get something to drink and turn around and everyone starts screaming.
And you realize you just missed the most important play of the entire game.
You missed the moment, or you're invited to your daughters.
and she's been practicing these lines, and in the middle of that play, you get a text, and it's something at work, and it's something so important, you're thinking, it's just gonna take a second, and as you respond to that, you hear people clapping, and you realize you just missed what your daughter's been rehearsing for months, you just missed a moment.
Anybody ever forget the birthday of a friend or family member?
Anybody ever forget an anniversary?
There's no going back from some of these moments, right?
See, the thing with moments is that they happen so often, they seem so ordinary, that you only realize the weight of a moment after it's over.
After you look back and go, man, I can't believe that wasn't an ordinary moment and I missed it.
And here's the thing.
The first Christmas for most people, which is an ordinary night, most people, the first Christmas, missed the whole thing.
They missed it.
Angels, they missed the star, they missed the celebration, they missed the birth of Jesus, they missed it because it was just an ordinary night.
But a few that ordinary became extraordinary because they looked, they saw, they witnessed.
And here's what I believe.
Most people, this Christmas season, this Advent season will miss the moments.
It'll just be an ordinary couple of weeks.
It's busy with parties and things and all the gifts you have to buy and all the stress of all the things.
And it's easy to go through an entire Christmas season to miss
those moments.
And so the next couple of weeks, we're going to be focusing on this idea of how can ordinary moments be transformed to extraordinary moments by the way that we view them.
And so I'm just going to give you a simple definition of ordinary, ordinary, possessing no special or distinctive features, something common, average, or mundane.
And then how do we as the people of God say, no, no, no, no.
Those moments aren't just common or average.
If we have the eyes of the heart to see what God is speaking, what God is doing, then we don't have to miss the moments.
And so I want to share with you just a few of those opportunities for people to turn and see something that looks very ordinary.
And the first one is the story of Moses.
In Exodus chapter three, Moses is wandering around in the wilderness.
You see, 40 years earlier, he was the prince of Egypt.
40 years earlier, he was in the palace.
He was the man.
He was well educated and well fed and well honored.
People wanted to hear what he had to say, but well, in a moment of impulse, he tries to become the leader of his people Israel.
He kills an Egyptian and now he's a fugitive.
And so this man with so much promise, so much education, so much honor becomes a nobody.
And he's wandering around feeding sheep.
The only thing he hears for 40 years is, and his fine palace clothes or now shepherd's clothes and tattered sandals walking around in the dust, forgotten.
Life has passed Moses by.
And you're probably not going to find a figure in the Bible who was this high in his early life and this low later on in his life.
And here's what happens as Moses is wandering around
in the wilderness.
Exodus chapter three, verse two, there, the angel of the Lord appeared to him in flames of fire from within a bush.
And Moses saw that though the bush was on fire, he did not burn up.
So Moses thought, I will go over and see this strange sight why the bush does not burn up.
Look closely at verse four.
Now, when the Lord saw that he had gone over to look, God called to him from within the bush, Moses, Moses.
And Moses said,
Here I am.
Do not come any closer, God said, take off your sandals for the place where your standing is holy ground.
What's happened, Moses wandering around, probably living in a sense of regret that he missed his moment, that he has no purpose, but God's eye is still on Moses.
Because if you're not dead, that you are not done.
You know that God's eye is always on his people.
And so this bush that starts burning.
A bush that maybe Moses had walked by 100 times in his life and 40 years in the wilderness, you walk by a lot of bushes.
And God waited for Moses to look and turn and see before he spoke.
That's what verse four says.
So my question is like, how many times did he not see?
Did he not notice that God wanted to speak to him?
I have no idea, but when Moses finally said, what's going on here?
God calls his name.
and says, I want you to take off your sandals because the place you're standing is holy ground.
Now for 40 years, that ground he walked on was ordinary.
It was common.
It was mundane.
It was average.
Nothing special about it until God spoke when Moses turned, which makes me think, are there moments in my life?
Are there moments in your life that feel very ordinary
But if we stopped in turn and say, God, what are you speaking?
What are you saying that it would turn into this extraordinary holy moment?
And we'd hear the calling of God, we'd hear his voice.
Listen, Moses is the only person who experienced this moment.
400 years before this, a man named Jacob.
Jacob who became Israel, who was the father of the nation of Israel.
Well, he had a rough moment in his life.
lied to his father, he stole his brother's birthright, and now his brother wants to kill him, and now he's a fugitive himself, like Moses.
He runs into the wilderness.
And there's got to be a sense of anxiety.
He's a mama's boy.
He's used to being taken care of.
He's used to the good life, and now he's all on his own.
He has no way to provide for himself.
His future is very uncertain.
He's probably thinking to himself, why did I say that?
Why did I do that?
And fill with a deep sense of regret, but you can't go back.
He can only go forward.
And so all he has that night in the wilderness is a stone that he uses as a pillow.
And he goes to sleep with all the anxiety, with all the shame, with all the regret, with all the stuff.
It just looks like an average night in the middle of nowhere.
But when he falls asleep, he dreams of this stairway, this ladder from heaven and angels descending and descending and God speaks to him in this place.
And when he wakes up, he says, surely God was in this place.
and I didn't know it.
And I love that line.
God was in this place.
It seemed ordinary when I went to sleep, but when I dreamed and when I opened my eyes, I see God was speaking to me in this place.
He said, how awesome in this place, I'm gonna name this place Bethel, the house of God, an ordinary place in the middle of the wilderness, becomes a place where God reveals himself to Jacob and changes who he is.
And this, again, is another moment, this idea.
Surely God,
is in this place, and I didn't know it.
Now, I want you to think of your yesterday.
Was God in all those places and spaces where you were?
And did you know it?
Were you aware of it today?
Will God be in the spaces and places as you drive home, as you go out to brunch, as you have this meal, as you talk to a friend, as you play a game?
Is God in all those moments?
The Bible reminds us God is everywhere present.
Psalm 139, there is nowhere you can go where God is not.
Isn't that good news?
Psalm 139, you can't go to the darkest, deepest pit or the highest mountain and not experience the presence of God.
We call this omni-presence.
God is everywhere.
It's not the same as pantheism where God is Mother Earth and she is the rocks and the trees.
No, no, here's our Abraham Kuiper describes the sovereignty of God over all creation.
There is not a square inch and the whole domain of our human existence over which Christ who is sovereign overall does not cry mine.
Jesus made all things.
Everything is by him and through him and for him and everything in all creation worships its creator.
This is who God is, the sovereign God over all and God.
It doesn't miss any moments.
And so I pray for us as we talk through this series that we would have the eyes to see a heightened awareness that all the ordinary moments all around us, that God is present and God is speaking and wants to have a relationship with us and well,
We're gonna practice that in a few ways.
So what would it mean just to think about a couple of common things?
I wanna get our minds started.
So like, every morning I wake up, one of the first things I do is I make myself a cup of coffee.
Anybody?
Okay, a few of you.
Now, you can just drink the cup of coffee and go in your day, or you can pause, and you can smell the coffee.
And you can say, God, thank you for coffee.
The Bible says, taste and see that God is good.
You know, God made our sense of smell and our sense of taste in every good food or drink that you've ever smelled or eaten or drank yourself is a gift of a generous God to you.
And so just a moment with a cup of coffee and a quiet moment, God, thank you for this coffee.
You're pausing.
doesn't have to be ordinary.
You walk out to your car and you're walking by a sidewalk and you see this, a flower emerging in the crack of a sidewalk.
Now, in your cynical self, I'm like, I need to get some weed killer and kill that thing.
Or you can say, God, how extraordinary
that in the crack of a sidewalk, you allow life to merge, and not just life, but a beautiful picture of your creativity and beauty and generosity.
And then you might think, hey, those cracks in my life, those things that look great in my life, how would something beautiful emerge in those places?
What about a dinner?
around a table.
You're going to be doing this a lot over the Christmas season.
So instead of saying to the kids, hey, eat your vegetables and clean up and stop making a mess and say something nice to your brother.
Instead of arguing with your roommate over, politics are all the anger and stuff of the day.
Why don't I just stop in the moment and just go, God, thank you for a good friend.
God, thank you for a family.
God, thank you to the good and the bad.
You've been with us in every
moment in a simple meal can become a moment of gratitude and joy.
It can become an active worship.
Just a couple of weeks ago, we celebrated 40 years of Calvary, a generation, and we were praying for good weather.
And well, in between the services, the weather wasn't great, but then all of a sudden, we saw this over our church.
And we're like, God, even in bad weather, you are good.
Your promise is on us.
You're speaking to us.
You love us.
And it became for us.
For those of us who noticed,
an act of worship, ordinary things becoming extraordinary.
And so today we're going to talk about just one of those things.
The simple, the simple thing of light, light seems so simple, so easy to look past.
And when John writes his gospel the first Christmas, he doesn't talk about like Matthew, the dreams that Joseph God or
the star in the sky.
He doesn't talk like Luke does about the song that Mary wrote or the shepherds in the sky.
John describes the Christmas story in light seven times in just the first few verses of John's opening of the Christmas story.
The theme is light.
And so let's look at John chapter one as he describes how the Christmas story began at the very beginning of creation where Jesus is the second
person, the Trinity, the Son of God, was in heaven with God and was God.
John 1.
In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God.
He was with God in the beginning.
Through him all things were made.
Without him nothing was made that has been made.
In him was life and that life was the light of all mankind.
The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
What does John say in the beginning was the Word.
And the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
In verse 14, the Word became flesh and made His dwelling among us.
He's describing Jesus in the beginning of time, and He says, through Him, everything was made, and there's nothing that
husband made that wasn't made through him.
This baby in a manger is the creator of the heavens and the earth.
Whoa.
So let's think back to the very beginning.
What were the first four words that God said in creation?
Let there be light.
You see, before there was light, the Bible says that a deep darkness covered the surface of the earth until Jesus spoke these words, let there be light.
And then light dawned on the planet and life exists because light has come.
In him there is life and that life is the light of all mankind.
That light shines in
the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it.
Darkness, think about it.
The world is void and formless.
There's nothingness.
There's silence.
There's emptiness.
There's chaos.
But when light is spoken into all those things, now there's an opportunity for beauty and abundance and order.
This is what light
brings.
And John says, this baby who came from heaven to earth, the God with skin on, was the one in the very beginning who made all of these things.
And listen, again, light seems ordinary, but light is anything but ordinary.
I mean, light is one of these things that astounds physicists and astronomers.
Like at the speed of light, time stops.
It operates like a particle and like a wave.
And the further you get into the study of light, into quantum physics, the more you realize there's so much we don't know about light because light is so mysterious.
And yet, we often take light for granted.
Well, until the electricity goes off and we can't turn on the light.
Or we're in this dark place in a new space and we don't know how to find our way in the dark.
And then we realize about dark can be
fearful it can be chaotic and light brings so much.
And so I want to just talk about three things that light brings that we can reflect on the extraordinariness of light in our world.
Here's the first one.
Light is a gift.
Yeah.
This idea, this concept of light, well, God is light in him.
There is no darkness at all.
And when he shares light, it's an extraordinary gift that he gives not just to the world, but to us.
ourselves given by a God who lives in unapproachable light.
And when you think about the way that God designed the world, it was designed in love with you in mind.
God didn't just make the world and put us in it.
He created the world with us in mind.
He designed it out of love.
And if you ever experience a gift that someone gives you, an artist who creates this beautiful handcrafted gift and they think of every detail and they give it to you, you receive it
With a sense of gratitude, like this person loved me so much, they thought about this gift when they made it for me.
Or if someone's ever made you a meal, a gourmet meal, and it's all your favorite foods and all the garnishes are perfect.
Even the presentation of the meal is good.
The chef has thought of everything.
This is how God designed the world with you in mind.
You see Advent makes us think a little deeper.
Think with me for a second.
To an infinite artist,
a creator in love with his craft, there is no unimportant corner, there is no throwaway image, no tattered thread in the novel left on time.
So when God was forming the world, he spoke light into the darkness, and light is not ordinary.
You see, as human beings are drawn to light, when you see the lights that are here and the lights that are here, it's like this sense of something that
is there reminds me of God's illuminating presence of the world and in my life.
And sometimes we just take light for granted.
So I want to show you a picture.
A few years ago, we snapped this at celebration of peace.
You see, children have a way to remind us of what all looks like.
of how we should feel when we see something that looks ordinary, but it's actually extraordinary.
If you can't find the joy in Christmas or looking at lights, look at little kids and study their faces.
Jesus says, unless you become like a little child, you can't receive or inherit the kingdom of heaven.
What is he talking about?
There's something about a child that says, wow, look at that.
Life is a gift.
Light is a gift.
And it leads us, if we're observing, to worship.
The second thing we see about light in this introduction of the Christmas story by John is that light reminds us that you are not alone.
The world is in darkness.
The world is struggling within.
And God sees people's brokenness.
He sees their pain and he sends Jesus from heaven to earth to bring light into the darkness.
Moses didn't know this, but God had not forgotten him.
God saw him.
Jacob didn't know this at the time, but in his dysfunction, his family broken, his in all his regret and shame, God had not taken his eye off of Jacob.
God sees you.
God has not forgotten you.
If you feel like you're in deep darkness, no, his eye is on you.
And there's something so powerful about that.
I remember being out in the ocean on a boat one night and you're looking at the darkness that's out in the ocean and then you're going, hey, how do we find our way back and then you see a lighthouse?
And it reminds you that you're not alone on the planet, that you're not lost, that light is gonna give you direction, that light is gonna lead you to a destination and that's why the Bible says God's word is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path.
You are not alone as you walk this planet, aren't you grateful for that?
It's a beautiful thing to think about.
to the light of God.
The light of God reminds us that God is with us.
And then finally, we see this idea in just these first few verses in John's gospel.
There is a reason for hope.
No matter how dark your life gets, no matter how deep the darkness is, like it was in creation, void, meaningless, silent, nothingness.
Light always wins in a battle
with darkness.
John says, the light has come into the world and the darkness has not overcome it.
Think about this.
You're in a completely dark room and you light a candle.
What happens?
The light illuminates the entire room.
Light always wins over darkness.
God has designed it so.
And so this Christmas, if you're feeling that sense of
of darkness, of depression, of sorrow because you lost a loved one, of regret because your life hasn't turned out like you want, of the sense of freneticness that you never feel like you're ever gonna get ahead or ever gonna make progress.
I want you to know you're not always gonna feel that way because God's light has a way to illuminate, his light has a way to transform, his light has a way to change because the darkness will not overcome the light.
And I'm so personally grateful.
that in the world that we live in, in the darkness and brokenness, this is a reminder that an ordinary view of light can change the way we see a situation.
And then the people of God, they knew what it was like to live in the darkness.
I mean, in the waiting for Messiah to come, there was a lot of darkness in the time of Isaiah who wrote the prophecies of Jesus to come.
Well, he wrote in a time of the nation of Israel in a place of exile, in a place of oppression, in a place of brokenness, in a place of disappointment,
Here's what he wrote about the coming of Messiah.
The people walking in darkness have seen a great light, and on those living in the land of deep darkness, a light has dawn.
Not just darkness, deep darkness.
Darkness for a long time, and darkness emotionally, spiritually.
Darkness in their nation, watching all these things happen, they wish never happened.
But it's in that darkness that Isaiah says a Messiah is gonna come.
A child is gonna be given in the middle of this.
This child who's going to be a wonderful counselor, a mighty God, an everlasting father, a prince of peace.
It's in the middle of the darkness that the light comes.
So as the people of God, we wanna have this sense of holy anticipation.
God, how are you gonna bring light into the darkness of my world?
Let me look at the beginning of the Christmas story.
It's a light show everywhere.
It's shepherds in a dark night and the sky lights up.
It's the Magi looking at the stars and a star, a bright star emerges.
It's an old man named Sibian going to the temple.
He's been waiting in the darkness, in the waiting for Messiah to come and he sees Jesus and he holds this baby up.
And here's what he says, from the eyes have seen your salvation, which you prepared in the sight of all the nations, a light for revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people, Israel.
An old man.
who's seen a lot of darkness in his life, sees this little baby, Jesus, eight days after he's born, he holds this baby up in the temple and says, this baby is the light for Gentiles.
And the glory for your people is real.
Who is Jesus for?
Those who are Jewish, God's chosen people, those who are Gentiles, everyone else, Christmas is for everyone.
Doesn't matter if you grew up as a Christian, doesn't matter if you grew up,
in the Muslim faith, as a matter of your group, as an atheist, God sent Jesus for you.
And this prophecy that Simeon's talking about comes from Isaiah, a rise in shine for your light has come, the glory of the Lord rises upon you.
See, darkness covers the earth and thick darkness is over the peoples, but the Lord rises upon you and as glory appears over you and nations.
will come to your light and kings to the brightness of your dawn.
Jesus says of himself, I am the light of the world.
And then he says, and if I'm in you and my life is in you, then you are the light of the world.
And so the people of God, when we notice what looks ordinary,
is actually holy.
It's actually a calling God has for us.
Then we can rise and shine.
What does it look like for the people of God to rise and shine?
Well, the book of Philippians chapter two verse 14 says this, Christian, do everything you do without complaining or arguing so that you can be pure and blameless, children of God in a wicked and depraved generation as you shine
like stars in the universe and as you hold out the word of life.
Listen, just in the world we live in, people are complaining and arguing every single day.
What if you decided I'm not going to complain?
I'm not going to argue, but I'm going to look at every person I see around me who complains and argues as an opportunity to say, hey, you know what?
But you know, life is a gift and we are not alone.
And there's still a reason for hope.
And you redirect the conversation around gratitude, and joy, and hope, and people are like, what is up with you?
And you can say, I can process these things, not because I'm naive, because I'm ignorant to the brokenness of the world.
No, I just know this, that even in the broken, it's even in the darkness, the light of God, always wins out.
And we point people to Jesus.
See the Bible says those that wins, wins souls.
We are wise and we will shine like stars and the universe.
And so we're going to take the rest of our time together just to practice this.
How do we orient ourselves?
How do we allow this idea, the simple idea of light to go from here to here?
And so we're going to sing a song over you.
It's called, oh, holy.
And maybe this is a song you've heard a lot, and it seems like it's an ordinary Christmas carol, but I want you to pay attention to the words.
In particular, I want you to pay attention to the way that light comes, and the way that light overcomes darkness.
And let God speak to you in these moments as we pause and as we reflect on the light that is Jesus.
ordinary song.
Suddenly becomes extraordinary when you slow down.
Listen to the words and what becomes or starts is very common can become a holy moment where you connect with God.
To say, God, you are so good and you see me and you love me and you know me and in this moment.
I know you're present with me and there's a reason for hope and all of a sudden
there's this beautiful interaction.
And what would happen if we began to practice this every day?
And so just, let's take some time right now to heighten our awareness of the presence of God in very simple things.
So sometime in this Christmas season, you're gonna sit around a table or you're gonna go to a party and you're gonna see candles.
And you could go, you know, I see,
candles all the time to Christmas.
So what?
Or you could say, it's amazing how beautiful candles are, how much they draw us.
What's they draw us in?
You know, candles were lit constantly in the tabernacle and the temple as a symbol of the presence of God.
For the Jewish people for centuries,
candle reminded them, God is with us, even if it doesn't feel like it.
God is for us, even if all the circumstances are conspiring to make me doubt that.
God is present.
And maybe you'll see this scene behind me, a scene where there's a Christmas tree with lights or a fireplace or maybe a fire pit outside and as you allow your senses to smell, smoke,
And the pine, as you allow your eyes to see the lights on the tree or the light of fire that you're reminded that no matter what the darkness is, God's light can overcome the darkness that he's with you, that he loves you.
And maybe for some of you, it's not what happens inside your house.
It's what happens.
outside your house.
You see, I don't know if you know this, but every day God paints the sky with a beautiful sunrise.
And every evening he paints the sky with a beautiful sunset.
How often have you stopped to notice the artistry and the beauty of God in an ordinary day?
And what would happen if you woke up early and went to the beach or in the evening?
you went out to the Everglades, because you can see sunsets here in South Florida on the East Coast by watching the sunset over the Everglades.
And it's something so beautiful because God does it in a different way every day.
And maybe you could pray or say something like this.
This is an excerpt from a book called Every Moment Holy, where we stop and pause and see the extraordinary in the ordinary.
Maybe you could say this at a sunrise or a sunset.
We praise you, O God.
for what we are about to witness.
In the patterns of cloud, illumined and crossed by a play of color and light, open our hearts to the work of your beauty cast on the canvas of the sky.
And then after you soak it all in, you say this, our hearts and our lives are your canvas of spirit of God.
We yield to them.
Just take a moment, pause, and all the business and anxiety and craziness of the world and your family and all the things, just be still and know that he's God.
That he loves you.
And that he painted that sunset to bring a smile to your face.
This is what God wants more than anything else.
A relationship with you.
A relationship that a father has with his children.
This is why Jesus
came.
This is why he is the light of the world.
Tuesday evening I was getting home after traveling all day and I decided to practice this so I went outside in my backyard and I watched the sun set.
I watched the moon rise and the colors were just everywhere.
And then I saw two planes going in opposite directions making this V with vapor that
I just sat in wonder at this V. And with all the things going through my head, it was like God saying, hey, V is for victory.
And if you're with me, you're going to experience my victory.
It was just a whisper, just a moment.
And it made my day.
Because an ordinary moment became holy.
Anybody here ever struggle with?
The frenetic pace of Christmas, and you get a little anxious with all things you have to do, and you're like, ah, ah, I can't breathe.
Okay, seven honest people in a whole church.
That's crazy.
So let me ask the question again.
Does anyone ever get stressed out during Christmas time with all the things you have to do, the things you have to buy, the places you have to show up, the people you think you have to please, the expectations you have to live by, okay?
27, 37, 47 honest people.
Do I hear 57?
Okay, if your heart is beating, raise your hand.
Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
All of us experience this different kind of pressure.
So what do we do when we experience pressure?
You know, one of the things that I love to do is to go outside at night.
So I want you to imagine walking outside in a night sky.
You know, when you walk outside under a night sky, you see the vastness of God's universe.
You feel small.
And the reason you feel small is because you are small.
But that's a very good thing to feel small because you are small.
And you realize that your problems that seem so big start to shrink in the light of who God is.
And then you can begin to imagine as you look at the night sky, one of those stars who was lit for me, remember the promise to Abraham that he would have descendants as numerous as the stars of the sky.
Maybe one of those stars was lit for me.
God knows me, God sees me and you take your kids outside and say, kids, look at the stars and can you imagine the night the Magi were looking and they saw this bright star that was so uncommon.
You take a moment to get into the story of Christmas.
Listen, if you're stressed out, if you're anxious, God's invitation is to go outside and look up.
He says this through the prophet Isaiah to his people, lift up your eyes and look to the heavens.
Who created all these?
Who brings out the star he hosts one by one and calls forth each by its name?
because of his great power and mighty strength, not one of them is missing.
Do you know how many stars there are?
I mean, there's 400 billion stars just in our Milky Way galaxy, but astronomers estimate that there is 200 billion trillion stars in the known universe.
And God knows every single one of them by name.
If he knows all those stars by name,
You don't think he knows your name or your struggle or your problem, right?
And so I'm going to give you a view of what God sees, just a singular star in our Milky Way galaxy.
One of 400 billion stars just in our galaxy, 3,400 light years away.
It's called the butterfly nebula.
I mean, just look at it for a second.
And just let your heart and mind be filled with awe.
God made the butterfly nebula.
And I just can't stop staring at it.
Like that's just one of 400 billion stars just in our own Milky Way galaxy.
This is how God sees.
He sees so much more deeply than we see.
And he wants to shine his light into our lives to give us
life.
He doesn't want us to go through Christmas and just make it through.
He wants common moments to be holy ground.
So maybe you take your whole family outside and you read something like this.
Constellations rise and descend the staircase of the night at your commando Lord.
Galaxy spin like dancers.
space and time bend and bow to the gravity of your great will.
So tune our ears to hear the songs of the stars in their trillion fold courses, bearing witness to your glory and your power.
I just pause, soak it on it.
And then maybe you say this, and you made this vastness and by your love you placed us in it, fixed among the wonders
awaken our adoration in this place where we are so very small and yet so greatly loved.
Our prayer for you this Christmas is that you notice in the common, in the mundane, in the average, in something that looks not very special that we would stop and pause and look and see something extraordinary, something holy.
Because once you're able to soak in the creation of God and the goodness of God and the grace of God in the coming of Jesus, you'll be able to share that with others.
You'll be so full of the love of God.
You can't wait to share it with your family and your friends.
We've been spending a lot of time talking about this loved people.
love people.
If you know you are deeply loved by God and seen by God and known by God and there's hope in every situation, you'll be able to pass that on to someone else.
And so we want to take time to be still and know that he's gone.
And in a simple Christmas light or a star or the moon or the sunrise, we see his presence.
We hear his speaking voice and we draw closer in relationship to him.
Someone to close with a story of a man who came to talk to Jesus at night.
He came to Jesus because he was in the dark.
Even though he was a man of great reputation and great position and likely great wealth, this is a man with great knowledge.
His name was Nicodemus, but he was spiritually blind.
He couldn't see.
He comes to Jesus at night and it has a whole bunch of questions.
about what does it mean to be in relationship with God?
What does it mean to be a person who inherits eternal life?
And Jesus says to this man, this is a man who everyone wants to be.
He says, you know, Nicodemus, unless you are born again, unless you are born from above, given a new heart and new eyes, you can't inherit the kingdom of God.
And then he
He tells him that God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son that whoever believes in him doesn't have to perish but can have everlasting life.
In other words, Nicodemus, the light that you're looking for is not gonna come from inside you.
It's gonna come from heaven to earth and you have to receive the forgiveness of God and the grace of God and the light of God in your darkness so that you can be forgiven and free and walk in a new way.
And then Jesus says this, but this is the verdict.
Light has come into the world, but men,
have loved darkness because their deeds are evil and they don't want to step into the light because if they step into the light then everything about them is going to be seen and known by God.
And they said, but there are some people when the light comes they take their brokenness and their doubts and their fears and the mess that maybe their life is on the inside that no one else knows and they step into the light so that everything that happens can be seen by God and they can be forgiven and free.
And Jesus has to make a deal with everyone has this choice.
And so I just want to take a moment to say maybe, maybe on the outside, your life looks like everything's together, but inside you feel that sense of numbness and aimlessness and maybe a sense of regret and shame.
Maybe you're running from something, maybe you're striving for something so bad.
You think if you get it, you'll finally be happy, but you realize the last five or six things you try to do that, you still feel that sense of void is because
you haven't invited the God of the universe to come and take a residence inside of you.
You might believe in God, you might pray to God when you're in trouble, you might pray to God even when you have moments of gratitude, but you've never invited him into a relationship where you can have a conversation with him and he can have a conversation with you.
And Jesus says, the choice you make about me, it affects everything, not just here, but in eternity.
And so you can,
hide in the darkness, hiding your own thoughts and feelings, because that might be like an old shoe that's very comfortable, or you could step into the light in a very uncomfortable moment and allow him to illuminate your life and forgive your sins and redeem your life and give you a whole new life and purpose.
And this is the invitation today.
If you want a relationship with God through his son Jesus, if today you know you need forgiveness and you're ready to pray a prayer of repentance that you believe that God sent his son Jesus on that first Christmas,
from heaven to earth to bring light into your darkness, to be adopted into his family.
Today you can be saved, forgiven, healed.
So in a moment we're gonna play a song and we're gonna invite you to stand up and walk this way for whoever wants to receive this gift of eternal life.
But I just wanna say for most people, this is gonna seem like an ordinary moment.
Yeah, we do this every weekend.
But for some people, this is gonna be an extraordinary moment.
These next five minutes are going to be the beginning of the transformation of your entire life.
There's a weight to this moment.
It's not common.
It's holy.
So if you're a Christian this year, I want you to pray right now that God would do a miracle in the life of someone in this place.
If you were invited here, you were invited because someone loves you.
They care about your soul.
They want to see the life of God, the life of Christ.
Do His good work bringing you peace and joy in a sense of direction and hope.
This is what Jesus did for us.
And we want this so badly for you because love people, love people.
And so we're gonna play the song.
If you know this is you, you know there's something missing and you're ready to give Jesus a chance.
You're ready to take a risk.
You're ready to take a step of faith into a relationship with God.
I'm gonna ask you wherever you are to stand up and to walk this way.
And we will celebrate with all of heaven
As you come and fetch you, come now.
He's waiting for you.
glad that you're here.
This is not an ordinary moment.
Not an ordinary moment.
There are certain moments in our life that have so much weight to them.
And God provides the faith and the courage to make a step in His direction.
And what He's going to do next is going to be
Something beyond what you could even imagine.
And that's why we celebrate.
That's why we applaud.
You know, where you're standing under it is this a concrete floor where a computer company used to make computer motherboards for computers.
This is just an average warehouse.
But on this spot, over the last 25, 30 years, people like you
I've come into a relationship with the living God, and this has become holy ground this spot.
And you're part of that story of God drawing people into his love and grace.
And so it's an honor for me to lead you in a very simple prayer to God.
It's not about the perfect words.
It's about a heart that's ready to confess that you're a sinner, that you need to save your God already knows this.
You're just agreeing with him.
He wants to forgive your sins.
He wants to take away the guilt of your sins and the shame of your sins, as you confess that he is Lord, as you believe in your heart, that God raised him from the dead.
He paid the debt that you could not pay, and now he wants to adopt you into his family.
And he wants to give you eternal life.
And so I'm gonna say a simple prayer out loud.
I'm gonna ask you to repeat this prayer after me.
Say this to God.
Lord God, I open my heart and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
Today, I repent.
Now, fill me with your spirit, and I will walk with you all the days of my life.
I pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Amen, guys, congratulations.
You're welcome to the family of God.
Hey, so before you go back to your seats, I wanna ask you,
for five more minutes, to follow me and our crew over to that room right there where we're gonna give you a Bible as a gift, have a quick conversation.
You'll be back with your friends in five minutes.
Hey guys, can we give them a hand as they go this way?
Guys, I'll meet you there.
Church, let's stand together and close in a song of praise to our Savior, Jesus, who is worthy of our praise.
rest of your weekend.
Before you go, if you're in need of prayer, please come forward.
We have a prayer team that is ready to pray with you.
But if not, enjoy the rest of your Sunday and we will see you again next week.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word belief to 31352.
So you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.